then I start the livestream all right so
welcome everyone to this be weekly IPL
d/deaf meeting it's April the 29th 11
p.m. my time and welcome everyone
so as every time we just go over what we
did and then discuss any open issues
that you might have as I'm the
gatekeeper of the trip head I am the
first one who had edit his items so I
basically just worked on the IPR the
format stuff still I got good reviews
from rod in the past week so hopefully
now the pre hours are all good and they
can be merged the next one or two days
and then bubble up the whole chain in
the transcript world and in parallel to
this I'm trying to get the stack a
specification rather than IP LD and
really quick mistake is some stands for
space no oh I don't actually add
animation anyway it's about geo data and
about spatial temporal data and it's
just a catalog and it is subscribe
normally with aesthetic JSON files and
it's really build upon em HTTP at the
web and hopefully I can convince the
people to kind of it at least a few
places change the specs or the also
works with content addressed systems and
good news is they don't use em json-ld
so they don't use the full thing we're
just like having their own linking stuff
and they are using URLs so we should be
good if we use something like this
scheme like IPL d : and then the CID
racing coded or something like this
we'll see and but also the other good
news is that I'm friends with most most
of the authors of the spec so I'm not
chances chances are high that I can
influence the spec and the plan is to
actually get a prototype working because
it's an upcoming conference in August
where there's a challenge where I
submitted that I want to work on this
stuff and I think is accepted or even if
it's not accepted I will still work on
the stuff who's in my class and I think
it's pretty exciting too because it
would be the first step into the Geo
world and they don't need to get the I
don't like full idea of how condom
addressing works and so much is their
small step like a kettle obviously a
small step into this space and they
hopefully convince them the people to
use it and then a CEO you know just so
my data in it and so on and go from
there
and but I plea excited about it because
I think it's a nice small size project
to get things started
yeah that's all I have
I can also probably put this also in the
notes I forgot about it that I want to
talk so much about it and so I think you
don't have to type everything am i
little thanks em next one is Michael
yeah so yeah I did some quick updates I
peeled eat on earth the the centralized
block store that I was putting up for
some demos for us basically works now I
can mint us some tokens and we can use
it for just a place to store blocks if
we want to build some stuff and just do
really really simple demos I'm still
fiddling with the Amazon stuff to try to
get clouds plants on a subdomain to work
but there's just a different real
structure that we can use for now other
than that the meetup is next week so we
have a full set of people to give ritual
talks I think at this point if anybody
else wants to give a talk there still
room though we have we were really big
slot like an hour and a half so anybody
who wants to say something please do it
also the people that are signed up
remember that you like you need to write
a talk so do that and then yeah and then
get ready for the summit in a few weeks
it'll be real fun two things yes doing
two weeks should prolly book my tickets
it's totally sense anyway so next one is
Eric
yeah does that include me the talks next
week is that a thing I forgot so in
recent days I did a bunch of selectors
work and I finally publicly confessed to
it earlier today so we had a big long
meeting about that and the graphs Inc
group of folks and there's a bunch of
links in the crypt pad here if anyone
wants to check that out I've discussed
it with some people in one all the ones
already but I think it's okay but we'll
see so there's some spec pr's and the
interface in the go code has been sort
of slowly evolving and it got some
interesting new features like selectors
are now going to have an interface in
code for describing whether they are
high cardinality or a low cardinality in
there in what they're going to explore
so we can decide whether or not we're
gonna iterate through the whole node or
if we're gonna like plug out individual
fields which might be an important
performance optimizations for like
complex data structures the camps and
stuff so that was interesting and yeah
some of that stuff seems to actually be
shaping up really nicely now it's back
to a recursive format so it's honestly
much more like something Volker was
trying to push a long time ago then the
stuff that I had drawn out of the
meanwhile so thank you both for being
smarter than me I came around eventually
and I still have some open questions on
those designs about I kind of had this
train of thought doing that like maybe
there should be some slight distinction
between matters like whether or not a
specific node is in the matched set like
the thing that I'm going to call a
callback on in the library versus the
sort of nodes that get explored and
right now those are kind of hodgepodge
together in the same structures and I
kind of want to play with another draft
where maybe they're separated because I
think that might be a useful idea but
that's like a very partially big thought
right now so if anybody has more time
the next week or so and wants to talk
about that I really like some other
brains and in other news we had Jeremy
and I had talked about like what will be
needed
for Falcone to start using go IPL D
prime ntldr they're probably going to
need to bind two node implementations
and I have no idea how to prioritize
that yet so there's some ongoing
discussion that's about it for me
all right
cool thanks okay anymore that does
anyone else have any updates or wants to
see about his status or something I
guess I had a question if we have time
Michael you can decide we this is uh for
another time or not but I I had been
bugging Mike a little about about the
what I perceives like features um and I
guess my question is like how how slow
is too slow in the sense of you know if
the problem is really like you know even
if we reduce the number of provider
records like it's just the DHT is just
too slow to do anything and we need
stuff now for humans to use like that's
a pretty big problem to just go ahead
and say like let's use the centralized
thing as opposed to its you know maybe
it's maybe it's a little slow or maybe
it's a pain for people to run cluster if
they don't know how to run cluster so
you want them to be able to use like
hosting on Amazon instead err or
something like using s3 instead of
running nodes that have to process all
the traffic I think those are like
different problems I guess I just want
to if people have time and are curious I
gonna be interesting
well I mean that's like that that
question is the answer to that question
is different depending on the use case
right like for some use cases it's gonna
work fine and for some that's not and I
think that I'm not entirely clear on
what's the top line use cases are for
ipfs other than just package manager and
if there's a particular package manager
and it's data that we know that we need
to ask for and we know how many records
that is that we can come up with a
pretty clear answer on like whether or
not that's going to work but if it's
just an open-ended question that I don't
really know how to solve it right like I
know that when like some of the work
that our katie has done to try to talk
to partners or potential partners and
their use cases some of those have been
you know in the millions of record and
it's just been kind of a no-go but I
don't know if though if those youth kids
are the ones that we actually care about
in the short term right now are they
millions of independent records are they
yeah we actually need individual access
to yeah like um like crypto kitties is
one of them so like how many kitties are
there I don't know there's a lot there's
gonna be more in the future it could be
the record well so with some of these
cases you can create one massive
directory but the problem is it like if
I want to point to one of these sub
records by hash directly announce it so
yeah I mean I think the issue with like
with something like crypto kitties and
and and a lot of these cases there's
this big long tail of like stuff that's
really high access that you that
everybody's gonna be asking for and then
like 90 plus percent of its there like
nobody ever asked for or the or if they
do ask for that's worth like incredibly
rarely and you know if we put it in a
ham it's just going to be like really
random which directories are going to
need or that and then it's not
necessarily going to fix that for us
like we don't have a great way to know
ahead of time which of those like need
that kind of action pattern of which
don't the the vault look at the concern
I'm trying dress there is actually
confident writing well I can be put into
my camp then at least we won't announce
one route the problem there though is
it's like if someone outside so you know
I wanted item directly instead of this
beautiful I penis then that just doesn't
work because I won't be an opportunity
each and every single individual record
and also now you're starting the network
for each change on the on the tree right
because you're only announcing the route
so the people that are like subscribe to
the old route when they got the data
yesterday are not going to be sharing a
network with new people right but but
but at the same time if you look at the
the package manager use case right like
a lot of the packages that are popular
are like five percent and so if we just
go about and they're saying like a
package name record like like the route
of each package by name rather than
every individual version then that might
be enough right like so and then you
know that would be in the
npm that would be a million record
pretty soon it's like 700,000 now but
that might be that might actually be
manageable whereas like if you were
doing the versions and then all the
chunks of each file in the versions
you're looking at you know maybe 100
million record
we then PM we can probably just announce
the route of the entire tree well no no
[Laughter]
yeah I mean like I think that NPM if we
don't go with him him we go the
different pack them into the smaller we
could definitely just do it at each
package name if we want to put NPM data
and we want to enough that they stack
names and we know that that's a million
records right yeah and if we can if we
know that we can do a million records be
great but yeah this is this is also I
have that separate issue around like
some more centralized contracting system
which is certainly something more
decentralized and I centralized data
storage system basically you have a good
like you still find the data and you
said was Network but you would like the
references or the things that parts of
tell you where to find the data could be
someone centralized yeah yep I mean like
like these these are all like we have we
have a bunch of different answers that
we can apply to different use cases
right I think that what we really need
to understand it's like what is the use
case said ITSs is going to end up max
like optimizing for that we definitely
need to be able to fix and then we can
say like okay well it's this it's
potentially this research project we
don't have a great answer to yet and
maybe we need to do something in the
interim or it's just a simpler thing oh
no we're just let's write a system where
we only announce this level of the tree
instead of every req instead of every
cid in the tree and then that would be
the solution that we do need to write
that because we don't have it yet but
yeah I just don't I don't have a clear
answer on what's the use gets optimized
for it so I don't I don't have great
direction for you right now yeah no
that's fine I guess I was just curious
because the yeah like obviously the
proposal that I had put up there has
nothing to do with DHT records right
it's like it's helpful it's helpful but
if you're it's helpful if you want to be
able to store your data without running
a Nakia fest note but it's not at all
helpful for this problem if I have too
many records I mean I I don't I don't
actually I don't have a good reason not
to do it right like I don't have a good
reason not to put a multi adder in I
mean maybe Stephen does but I don't I
don't see why that kind of flexibility
wouldn't be useful for some use cases in
the future I just don't know if it
necessarily fixes the issues that we
consider a top priority now but I don't
think it's a very big change right like
what if I don't think that it would be
that difficult to implement so I don't
have any reason not to do it
it would be painful but any network
change is painful basically so like well
I think there may be ways of doing that
we saw less painful basically no matter
what we do we'll have a transition
period we're like a big server starts a
server start supporting it and then I
have deep-sea clients start using it
effectively like yeah by that do you
mean that there will just be a time I
mean so I'm trying to get clarity like
by that do you mean there's a period in
time where there are records in the DHT
using this new thing that a bunch of
peers just don't know what to do it or
literally like those peers will blow up
when they see that data because they're
like oh no this is the right like how
like how disruptive at that came to the
network well it's only that the servers
will reject it probably depending how we
implement something that's rejecting
these records entirely so in fact like
to make this useful without like adding
a bunch of round trips like try
something and then if that doesn't work
try something else
like we could either up the beach team
protocol so if you learn ahead of time
oh you speak this person protocol
therefore I know it used to be that you
can store these kinds of records or we
just like say well like we add support
on the server side for this tip record
wait a couple releases get most the
network upgrade we can look at the
temerity HD crawlers like see like one
most network is acquitted and then once
this happened then we upgrade all the
clients and say like okay now the
clients can start to fittings
otherwise the concern I think the
clients putting records before the DVR
we support it these servers to delete
the records in throw the white and we're
just gonna break everything yeah well it
won't break any break any clients that
just won't add any functionality and so
I well I mean like so I can apply it
puts like a christ-like in one record
that could appeal that has something and
some multi I didn't know break it
yeah otherwise yeah I know it'll just
like he just won't do anything which is
probably fine yeah the the other
questions around like I'm not sure I
know I'm slowly quite sure that
motivator is the right solution here
because multi additionally address the
Machine they're kind of the same like
like this machine mm-hmm could we still
did something to say like we need like
you should speak this protocol to this
machine Hertz this thing like well
there's like they tell you how to
connect a machine but they don't like
well there's the whole thing right now
right there's like whatever a slack
thing going on and some github issues
about Lib kooky folks trying to figure
out HTTP and UNIX socket addressing with
multi ladder right yeah like the plan is
to do that but that's but that's really
is like like address HTTP endpoint not
massaged to be file it's like there's
everything like HTM point that's used
like an RPC library or something like
that like a piece of content on some
server it's like most things just it's
not used for content so like the way
we'd use it to say like okay here is
like this directory in the server and
then under this or it's really like
here's this API endpoint somewhere query
this API endpoint for this thing the
problem it just like I think we have
three fields won't be like here is the
endpoint you talked to here's the
protocol you should speak with this
endpoint and then well yeah really
started to things yeah but here's
the endpoint here is the protocol we
should speak over this like the employ
described by people together we could
potentially put them all theaters like
this space is not very well defined
yeah and I'm sorry I have to end this
discussion because I just saw that rod
it joined the call and he should also
get the time to talk about his updates
so rod yeah sorry yeah so Maya place
look I don't have anything major that
the to report I haven't had the most
productive couple of weeks because of
some health problems but I spent over a
bunch of time on schemas I have been
building at a little test suite for a
schema quaza hopefully trying to get
this right and also bumping up against
some of the issues that I've been going
back and forth with Eric about its
regard to Union representations so
that's been kind of interesting and also
the other thing was the pull requests
that the volkl put in to all the IPL
DJ's libraries that was a really good
chance to dive into the details of them
all like I hadn't really looked in the
protobuf I peeled a library and I spent
some quality time understanding that so
that was that was all very helpful for
understand the stage of things so those
were the two big highlight items for me
and going ahead I'm mainly focused on
schema stuff because I want to I want I
really want to make it to a point where
I can actually start implementing
something because I can imagine this
being a rabbit hole that it lasts for
months I don't really want that to
happen I want to be able to use this for
something interesting soon so that we
can prove its utility so that's that's
the aim to make it useful soon cool
that's
- thanks for the update is there
anything else anyone wants to talk about
a way to pass on to the how to make
scheming Cecil sooner than later
thought like God yes definitely
one thing that I've been considering
doing over on the NGO side is leaving
aside the DSL parser angle right now and
having completely equivalent
representation in go code and trying to
write the validator parts because it
would be nice to we use that on some
data for other stuff like I would really
like to have the if I could lament not
having the DSL but then like write all
of those types in go structs and then
have that validate method work on the
stuff that I'm drafting for selectors
for example just make sure I'm not doing
anything BS in the selectors that's
another thing that would give me it's at
you really soon and that's not stuff
that's fully landed it would go
libraries either but I wish it was for
an example of how to make it concrete
yeah validating things like you mean
like the the types that are not the base
types is that is that what you're
thinking which the validation yeah like
what the whole tree of the IPL needed in
and like sanity check that it matches
the schema so like if I had a boolean
appear in that data and it wasn't
supposed to talk but I'm really really
really glad you're doing the DSL science
stuff as well I'm just I'm just not
seeing it in particularly in JavaScript
I'm not seeing an easier path to making
it useful other than having it be able
to do a transform though take a data
structure transform it into what you
actually want that's what I'm thinking
not maybe that's the wrong way to do it
but that seems to be the most logical
part utility
I'm totally thrilled by all of the
directions you've chosen so far so I'm
just offering that I had a slightly
different way over here but it's based
on different constraints - so she's I
still want to get this Union stuff right
and so what I'm going to do in the next
couple of days is is trying I'll play
with the proposal that you had for
putting the representation for the
fields in line with friends and see if
that solves some of the annoyances
because it's it really is when you look
at a parser it's then unions that stand
out as the problem because all the
reference representations do something
completely different to what you're
reading so it just doesn't seem doesn't
seem right it's oh is it possible that
there's not enough examples of other
things that are weird but have you tried
having price for examples for stuff like
structs which i represented as arrays
because those have a bunch of weird as
well but maybe not this really I was
working on the boat on those yesterday
and that's see it didn't seem that that
problematic I haven't done the string
doing stuff any of the string formats
man maybe they'll end up being weird as
well but it just seems like the union
ones were fundamentally weird because
each one of them was was different but
yeah you might be right
so one in this case that I have that I
need like I want to have in JavaScript
is basically just a change log data
structure so the note itself would just
have the current route like a link to
the current route I don't link to the
prior change log route so that you could
just Traverse back through all prior
versions as you update it so and it has
sort of a mild transform in that as you
apply paths to it those paths all just
apply directly to the to the current to
the current route but there's also a
property for versions to go back in the
time but those yeah those would get
exposed to little different reasons they
actually look in the data structure so
there is like
something like I transform to the reader
and yeah I don't know I don't know how
close we are to having that be a thing
well one of the reasons I wanted to skip
over they some of the not more novel
string.format stuff is simply because I
didn't imagine them having obviously
shielding straight away through
transforms oh yeah sorry it's not the
string transform stuff it's its path
transformation paper go on ya know one
of it was I'm trying I'm trying to get
to that quick quicker by trimming off
some of these stuff that just seems a
little bit extraneous but necessary but
in the future but not so useful for
getting to utility early so I mean I I
need to I need I do need to draw a line
under under my approach because I don't
really as I said I don't want to be
spending the next two months on just
pausing and getting it perfect because
that doesn't seem like a good place good
use of time so I need to make sure that
the approach I've taken is is is working
towards something useful and if not in
change tack somehow and maybe maybe go
for a validator instead of a transform
yeah curious I don't think I've looked
at much of your code since you pasted
some of the peg grammar in chat do you
have that generating an ast node graph I
guess that's what that would do yes sort
of
so the paid grammar will generate a it's
essentially a data structure that
represents what's been powers it's not a
perfect AST but it's it's close enough
and I'll try and get the code up to
somewhere on github soon it's just not
in a good State for putting anywhere and
it's better to make it a bit more
structured so what I would have what I
wanted to do is share be the test case
fixtures with you so I did them in a
form on writing them in a format that is
not specific to JavaScript so it's got
the the schema snippet and then a JSON
representation of what it would come out
as for sup to be useful and then I
wanted to add to that to have you know a
data structure that would be because it
would come from a block maybe in JSON
representation and then be able to apply
the scheme to that as well I haven't got
to that bit yet but that's what else
I've been geeks til next week so I'd
like to share those with you because
they that's where I'm starting to see
more of these patterns of it's the
examples really will make this thing
come alive at least for me anyway so
there's these building out these small
snippets of what this thing looks like
and what it what it should be
represented as to be useful it's the
most interesting bits I really want to
show that too and so I'll get that on
github in some useful way so cool all
right is there anything else because
we're already running out of time I
don't see any hands
so oh I I see hands but they are not
waiting okay so as thanks all for time
and we talk again in two weeks
goodbye